S3 Simple Storage Service
object storage - In storage world two types block storage (DB, OS) and object storage (files)
File size can be from zero bytes to 5TB
S3 is a universal namespace i.e bucket names must be unique globally. So for example you couldn't create a bucket called "testbucket" because pretty sure that name is already taken. The bucket creation also creates a URL of standard format - 
https://s3-<regionname>.amazonaws.com/<bucketname>
Upload a file returns 200 Ok
S3 Consistency
Amazon S3 provides read-after-write consistency for PUTS of new objects in your S3 bucket in all regions with one caveat. The caveat is that if you make a HEAD or GET request to the key name (to find if the object exists) before creating the object, Amazon S3 provides eventual consistency for read-after-write. Reason: If you send a GET or HEAD before the object exists, such as to check whether there's an object there before you upload, then the upload is not immediately consistent for read requests even after the upload is complete, because S3 has already made the only immediately consistent internal query it's going to make for that object, discovering, authoritatively, that there's no such key. The object creation becomes eventually consistent, since the creation has to "overwrite" the previous lookup that found nothing.
Object = key, value, metadata, versionID.
Random keys are well distributed. key are lexicographically sorted.
Key name unique within a bucket
Objects have subresources in addition to the above 4, these are ACL and torrent. 
99.99% availability but 11 9 durability.
Secure data using acl and bucket policies
Tiered storage : 
S3 - designed to sustain loss of 2 facilities
S3-IA (lower charge than s3 but retrieval fee, rapid access provided when needed) , 
RRS (same availability but 2 9 durability over a year), 
Glacier - restore takes 3-5 hours.
S3 charged for storage, requests , storage management pricing (when you tag data for management), Data Transfer pricing ((data coming in is free but moving around in S3 is charged) and transfer accelaration.
TA Upload = end user --> Edge --[optimized network path]--> S3 
S3
You manage the S3 buckets at a global level but the bucket itself is created in a particular region
To track the storage cost or other criteria for individual projects or groups of projects, label your Amazon S3 buckets using cost allocation tags. A cost allocation tag is a key-value pair that you associate with an S3 bucket. After you activate cost allocation tags, AWS uses the tags to organize your resource costs on your cost allocation report. 
AWS bucket tags are not inherited by objects which have their own tag.
Encryption
Client side encryption - encrypt and store
Server side encryption - three kinds 
1) SSE with amazon s3 managed keys 
2) SSE with KMS
3) SSE with customer providrd encryption
[DR1] By default . buckets are created as private and all objects stored under the bucket are private
Versioning
Stores all versions of an object (including writes and deletes)
Used for backup
enable MFA delete to provide additional security
once enabled it can't be disabled only suspended
object permission are on per version basis, not for the whole object
In order to delete an object, you have to delete all versions. Just deleting the object as a whole will add a delete marker version keeping all versions intact. You can also delete an individual version.
Cross region replication
Versioning must be enabled on both the source and destination bucket.
Regions must be unique.
Files in existing bucket are not replicated automatically. all subsequent updates files will be replicated.
You cannot replicate to multiple buckets or use chaining i.e a replicated to b which is then replicated to c and so on. The console allows to configure a backup for the backup but replicated objects don't get replicated over based on the chain. If a new object is added to the backup then its backup will get it.
When you copy objects from one bucket to another, the permissions are not copied. See DR1
However when a new object is added to a source bucket, the permissions are also replicated.
Delete behaviour in replication is atypical. Delete of an object gets replicated along with the delete marker but restore i.e deleting the delete marker in the source bucket doesn't get replicated. Same with deleting a version in source , doesn't get replicated.


Glacier
S3 IA - storage cost is lower
Glacier is for long term archival
You can use a lifecycle rule to send objects to S3 IA and then to glacier or directly to glacier. Also allows to automatically expire objects based on rule
Lifecycle management can happen with or without versioning
Can be applied to current and previous versions
Transition to S3 IA, minimum size is 128KB and 30 days after creation
An object must remain in the Standard-IA storage class for a minimum of 30 days before transitioning to the Glacier storage class
Lifecycle management can be used to permanently delete objects as well
Usage of lifecycle configuration
periodically delete objects that are not needed after some time like logs
some objects are frequently accessed in begining and then IA later.
Pure archival like DB backup
Reduced redundancy storage class is not recommended because its not cost effective.
Transition from S to SIA or OZIA and then from either of them to Glacier. You can also go from SIA --> OZIA. Everywhere object must sit for 30 days before allowed to move
The GLACIER storage class objects are visible and available only through Amazon S3, not through Amazon Glacier. 

Security
By default all newly created buckets are private
AWS assigns two unique IDs to each AWS account, An AWS account ID and A canonical user ID. The later can be used when assigning cross accout access to buckets/objects. Bucket policy applies to entire bucket and ACL is used to make individual objects public.
Encryption
two types, in-transit using HTTPS, and at-rest there are 4 different methods
Server side : 
1) S3 managed keys called SSE-S3, each object encrypted with unique key and the key is encrypt with master key using AES256
2) SSE-KMS - additional charge, separate permission for envelope key . provides audit trail. Who is decrypting what, can manage keys. CMK=Customer Master key
3) SSE-C - customer provided keys
Client side : Using the CMK ID, the client first sends a request to the AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) for a key that it can use to encrypt your object data.

S3 Transfer accelaration
Use different end point to upload to bucket, basically uses cloudfront edge location and then it gets routed to Bucket

Static Website hosting
Public read access to object in the bucket. object is static content , no dynamic stuff like PHP.
the website is {bucketname}-s3-website-{region}.amazonaws.com
If you need domain name, need to use route 53. the domain name will be same as bucketname
scales well, movie preview handle multi-million requests in day

Go through the summary video
